.ds PN veconfig

.TH veconfig 1 "Aug 2013" "VeRTIGO" "VeRTIGO Manual"

.SH NAME
veconfig \- commandline tool to administer VeRTIGO

.SH AUTHOR

  Roberto Doriguzzi Corin <roberto.doriguzzi@create-net.org>
  Matteo Gerola <matteo.gerola@create-net.org>
  Rob Sherwood <rob.sherwood@stanford.edu>

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B veconfig match config.xml \fIdpid\fR \fImatch\fR

.B veconfig dump config.xml

.B veconfig chpasswd config.xml \fIslicename\fR

.B veconfig query config.xml \fIdpid\fR \fI[slicename]\fR

.B veconfig generateCert \fI[hostname]\fR

.B veconfig generate newconfig.xml \fI[hostname]\fR \fI[admin_passwd]\fR \fI[of_port]\fR \fI[api_port]\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B veconfig
program is a command line tool for manipulating the VeRTIGO's configuration
directly, as opposed to through a running VeRTIGO instance (SEE vectl(1)).
As such, veconfig relies on standard file permissions instead of VeRTIGO
user permissions.  Also, veconfig should 
.B NOT
be used to modify the configuration of a running VeRTIGO as your changes will be overwritten.  To modify
the configuration with veconfig, you must kill the VeRTIGO first, and the changes will take effect
once the VeRTIGO is restarted.

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
\fBmatch\fR
    Used for debugging, asks the VeRTIGO to list which rules match the given match 
    structure.  The format of the match is as described in vectl(1). 

.TP
\fBdump\fR 
    Displays the configuration file in a more human-readable form.  Note that
    the actual configuration file is stored in XML, which is arguably not
    human readable.

.TP
\fBchpasswd\fR \fIslicename\fR
    Changes the password for a slice.  Useful for resetting the admin password
    if it is forgotten.  This command does modify the configuration, so should
        not be used on a running VeRTIGO.

.TP
\fBquery\fR \fIdpid\fR \fI[slicename]\fR
    Two useful debugging commands.  If the slice name is not specified, this command will
    list the slices that have the specified DPID in their slice.  If the slice name is 
    specified, it will list the ports of the DPID that are used by this slice.

.TP
\fBgenerateCert\fR \fI[hostname]\fR
    This command generates a new SSL Key store (mySSLKeyStore) with \fIhostname\fR as the
    SSL common name.  If no hostname is specified, the output from /bin/hostname is used.
.TP
\fBgenerate\fR  newconfig.xml \fI[hostname]\fR \fI[admin_passwd]\fR \fI[of_port]\fR \fI[api_port]\fR
    Generate a new config.  This command also generates a new
    configuration file, complete with example slices Alice and Bob.
    veconfig will prompt for a password for the initial admin account
    if one is not specified on the command-line.  The config listens on
    port \fIof_port\fR (default: 6633) for OpenFlow switches and port
    \fIapi_port\fR for the XMLRPC server (default: 8080).  Likely, if
    this config file is actually to be used, the first thing to do would
    be to delete the Alice and Bob slices, and then populate it with
    your own slices.  This command also generates a new SSL Key store
    (mySSLKeyStore) with hostname as the SSL common name (i.e., same as
    'generateCert').

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR vertigo (8),
.BR vectl (1)
