.ds PN vertigo

.TH vertigo 8 "Aug 2013" "VeRTIGO" "VeRTIGO Manual"

.SH NAME
VeRTIGO \- OpenFlow network slicing and virtualization daemon

.SH AUTHOR

  Roberto Doriguzzi Corin <roberto.doriguzzi@create-net.org>
  Matteo Gerola <matteo.gerola@create-net.org>
  Rob Sherwood <rob.sherwood@stanford.edu>

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vertigo
[-d \fIdebug\fR] [-h] [-l] [-p \fIport\fR] \fIconfig.xml\fR 

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B vertigo
program is a daemon that enables the instantiation of generalized virtual topologies in OpenFlow networks including virtual links and virtual ports.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
-d \fIdebug\fR
Overrides debugging threshold in config.xml and sets it to \fIdebug\fR.  Does not modify config.xml.
Mostly used for manual debugging.  The string \fIdebug\fR must be one of MOBUG, DEBUG, NOTE, INFO, WARN, ALERT, CRIT,
and FATAL (in order of increasing priority/verbosity) similar to syslog(3).

.TP
-h
Prints the version number and usage information and exits.


.TP
-l
Logs to stderr instead of to syslog()

.TP
-p \fIport\fR
Overrides listenning port from config.xml and sets it to \fIport\fR.  Does not modify config.xml.
Mostly used for manual debugging.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.TP 
FV_JVM_ARGS

The override the default arguments to the JVM with those in $FV_JVM_ARGS.
May be useful for increasing memory efficiency or playing with special
JVM optimizations, like fancy garbage collectors.

.TP
FV_DEBUG_PORT

Turns on remote debugging support for the JVM and sets the JVM to
listen on port $FV_DEBUG_PORT.  This is useful for attaching a
remote debugger, e.g., `jdb -attach fvserver.foo.com:$FV_DEBUG_PORT`.
\fINOTE\fR: there is no security in the JVM debugging protocol, so
by enabling this option you potentially open your running VeRTIGO
to remote control/manipulation.  FV_DEBUG_PORT is specified as
\fI[local_address:]port\fR, where \fIlocal_address\fR defaults to "all
interfaces", so if you are interested in binding to a specific
interface, e.g., the loopback interface on port 12345, can set
FV_DEBUG_PORT=localhost:12345 .  See
\fIhttp://download.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/guides/jpda/conninv.html#Invocation\fR
for more information.



.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR vectl (1)
.BR veconfig (1)
